Since you're a subscriber to this
Bloomberg podcast, we thought you'd be
interested in a sponsored podcast called
Evolving Money, produced by Coinbase and
Bloomberg Media Studios. It explains how
institutional investors are adopting the
world's newest asset class, crypto.
Here's a recent episode.
There's been a lot of frustration in the
crypto community over the past 15 years
because the the Wall Street and
financial services industries have
ignored crypto or outright been opposed
to it. [music]
>> That's Rick Edelman, a longtime
financial adviser and podcaster in the
financial world [music] and the perfect
guest to kick off this episode of
Evolving Money. [music] The reason that
there has been such antipathy uh about
crypto in its early years is because
[music] it didn't get invented by Wall
Street and Wall Street doesn't like what
it doesn't control and own. So, better
to quash it if you can, ignore it if you
can't. [music] And they did that pretty
successfully for 10 years. But
eventually, they began to realize it's
here to stay. And oh, by the way, the
technology is in fact pretty cool.
[music]
>> Welcome to Evolving Money. I'm your
host, Angie Laauo. I spent decades as a
journalist covering the financial
industry and well, this is the [music]
biggest story yet. This show is
co-produced by Coinbase, one of the
largest cryptocurrency [music]
platforms in the world, and Bloomberg
Media Studios. In this series, we are
exploring [music] how crypto is being
adopted by traditional financial
institutions as the next logical
evolution of the monetary system.
This episode is about tokenization.
That's the process of representing a
real world asset or financial instrument
on blockchain. Now, in less than three
years, the amount of tokenized assets
has grown eight-fold to more than $30
billion US across equities, fixed
income, private assets, real estate, and
a whole lot more. And the tokenization
revolution is still in its early stages.
Now, recently we've seen some of the
largest traditional asset management
companies embrace it in a big way. This
is what I'm talking about.
Black Rockck, they've launched what they
call the Bidd Fund on Ethereum. It's a
tokenized money market fund they've made
available to qualified investors. The
total value of those tokens around $2.8
billion.
And [music] then we've got Fidelity.
They've rolled out their own tokenized
money market fund currently valued at
[music] over $200 million. JP Morgan and
Goldman Sachs. They've also made their
tokenized assets available to their
investors in various ways. But why are
they doing it? Well, there are three
main drivers. We've got liquidity,
broader access, and operational
efficiency.
We're going to touch on all three of
those topics with our next two guests.
>> [music]
>> Rick Edelman, who you've already heard
from. He launched the Digital Assets
Council of Financial Professionals, the
first educational platform helping
[music] financial advisers responsibly
navigate crypto, blockchain, and
tokenized assets. He's uber bullish on
the opportunities tokenization is
bringing to the market. And Scott Lucas,
head of markets, digital assets with JP
Morgan. He's actively integrating
tokenization and blockchain technology
into JP Morgan's operations, but he
isn't in as much of a hurry as Rick is.
And I think it's important to give them
both a place to explain [music] their
approaches for you. We'll start with
Rick.
[music]
Now, just a few months ago, Rick, you
said that by the end of the decade,
tokenization will be the dominant
investment platform in the industry. far
eclipsing ETFs. ETFs as we know them
today really won't exist in five years.
That is quite the prediction, Rick. Why
do you see that?
>> Yeah, it does sound momentous, but it
really isn't. It's iterative. Uh it's
just the next logical step in
technological generation of money
management. Uh remember that ETFs have
come on the marketplace over the last 20
25 years replacing mutual funds which
were themselves the dominant investment
vehicle for Americans for decades and
decades.
>> Okay, but mutual funds still hold I
think about 20 trillion here. That's a
huge piece of the investment world. So
why do you see ETFs and eventually
tokenized products actually eating into
that?
>> They're simply technologically superior.
Uh ETFs trade throughout the day. Mutual
funds you are only priced once when the
market closes. ETFs have better
disclosure. ETFs are lower in taxation.
They're lower in cost. They're higher in
liquidity. So naturally, people love
ETFs over mutual funds. The same thing's
going to happen with tokenization. We're
going to take those ETF shares and turn
them into tokens which will trade on
blockchains. This will further reduce
the costs, further increase the
liquidity, further increase the uh broad
array of assets available for you to
invest in, improving your
diversification. So, what's not to love?
So, just as everybody graduated from
mutual funds to ETFs, next we're going
to go from ETFs to tokens.
>> Do customers want it? Do they understand
it? Because at the end of the day, if
the customer doesn't want it, the bank
is not going to create the product.
Well, we we all remember Steve Jobs who
famously said he never engaged in focus
group testing because nobody understood
the products he was inventing. So, how
could they have a valid opinion? Uh, and
it's the same thing with blockchain
technology. People don't understand it,
and so how can they like it? In other
words, all we're going to do is develop
the technology, introduce the products
on that platform, and consumers will
quickly discover it's faster, cheaper,
safer with greater transparency and
inclusion. So, they will move and adopt
to this because it's simply going to
offer them tremendous benefits that they
currently lack. Right now, we can only
trade stocks Monday through Friday,
excluding holidays and weekends, from
9:30 to 4 in the afternoon. That's
silly. Why aren't we able to do this
24/7, 365? Why aren't we able to do it
instantaneously? Like when you go to a
supermarket to buy a loaf of bread, you
walk out with a bread as soon as you pay
for it. Why can't we do that with shares
of IBM? You remember back in 2019, we we
were both in the space then, but one of
the world's first real estate
tokenization ideas came to light and it
was in Aspen. It was St. Regis. They
were fractionalizing
uh the sale of their big resort
>> and I think a fifth of it went for I
think was it $18 million, Rick? Do you
remember?
>> Yeah. And it were 10 they were 10 bucks
a piece. Yeah. Uh each of the tokens and
that was actually the second
transaction. The first one was a year
earlier, a condo building in Manhattan
tokenized. Uh, and and just think about
the wonder of this. See, the big problem
with real estate, as we all know, is
that it's very expensive to buy and it's
highly illquid. I mean, we all know how
hard it is to buy and sell a house
compared to buying and selling shares of
Nvidia. So, along comes the tokenization
process where they could take this
multi-million dollar asset and split it
into tokens of $10 a piece. All of a
sudden, people who never were able to
buy commercial or investable real estate
now can because the price of the token
is cheap and it trades with great
liquidity. This opens up the commercial
real estate sector to retail investors
in a scale never before seen. This is a
big deal because the real estate market
globally is three times bigger than the
global stock market.
So Rick, I get it that tokenization
makes transactions more straightforward.
It makes them quicker. It reduces
overhead, all of that, but
realistically, I mean, actually, how
much money will using crypto rails save
the banks in overhead?
>> So you look at Kinesis, which uh is a
blockchain created by JP Morgan that
does $2 billion a day in crossber
transmitts. They've moved over $4
trillion worldwide since it was
conceived four years ago because they
recognize they can move money for their
institutional clients faster, cheaper,
and easier than they can using the
federal uh systems that we use in money
management such as the Swift system. So,
everybody's beginning to recognize that
this is better technology than the
technology we've been using to date. It
offers big business benefits, saving
lots of money. JP Morgan says that
blockchain will save banks $120 billion
a year. So you're now at the stage where
nine out of 10 banks are developing
blockchain technology. Two out of three
Fortune 500 companies are developing the
technology and over the next 12 to 24
months you're going to see all of them
begin to deploy and it's going to be an
exponential growth curve. traditional
hockey stick. Uh, and people are going
to be shocked at the speed of adoption
and implementation in the marketplace.
Uh, it's going to appear to have come
out of nowhere, but it's going to be
like the Beatles where they spent, you
know, six years becoming an overnight
success.
>> Rick, what's next? We have the
institutionals coming in. We have the
Black Rockck, the Franklin Templeton,
uh, JPM. All of these folks are coming
into this space. How will this look in 5
years?
>> Well, everything is going to be
tokenized. Uh not just financial assets
such as stocks, bonds, real estate, uh
and and other. But everything is going
to be tokenized. For example, your
driver's license and passport. Why are
we carrying a piece of plastic in our in
our wallet or purse? That's ridiculous.
uh your employment records, your
academic records, your health records
will all be tokens, making it easier for
you to deal with the medical industry or
when you're applying for a job or trying
to rent an apartment. Uh you're going to
uh be able to tokenize your home. We all
know that homes are the number one asset
for most Americans, but they don't want
to sell their house when they're retired
to generate income. They want to keep
living there. So, well, by tokenizing
your house, you can take that
million-doll home, create 1 million
tokens of a dollar each, and now you can
sell them off one at a time as you wish
to generate income for yourself.
Investors will want to buy it because
they're going to want to own a piece of
your home because you live in a great
community with an appreciating asset.
So, we're also going to tokenize
salaries. For example, you can already
buy a uh into a token that is a contract
of a professional athlete, your favorite
quarterback or your favorite Hollywood
celebrity or your favorite recording
artist. You you can buy a token of their
music catalog. So instead of being a fan
of Taylor Swift, you'll be able to be an
owner of her music along with her so
that you're earning money by enjoying
your favorite radio show or Hollywood
movie or Broadway play. This is going to
be the tokenization of everything. We're
going to be able to take all these real
world assets and create digital
representations of them that you'll be
able to own and trade and enjoy as a
hobby.
[music]
That's Rick Edelman and what he sees
makes him highly enthusiastic about the
potential of tokenization.
My next guest, however, has a more
measured perspective.
Scott Lucas is the head of markets
digital assets for JP Morgan, the
world's largest bank and a leader in
blockchain usage amongst tradey firms.
Scott is an expert and a leader in this
space and he recently oversaw a very
large transaction that caught my
attention.
In late 2025, [music] JP Morgan served
as an arranger for $50 million US
commercial paper issuance on Salena's
public blockchain. Galaxy [music]
Digital, which is a global cryptofocused
financial services and infrastructure
firm, issued the tokenized commercial
papers. Those tokens were purchased by
Coinbase and Franklin Templeton with
settlement occurring in [music]
stablecoin. Now, this was a short-term
corporate debt deal done in a
traditional finance structure, but
issued, traded, [music] and settled
directly on a public blockchain instead
of through legacy banking rails. No
doubt it was a landmark deal. [music]
But my question is why did JP Morgan do
it?
I guess the key thing for us to really
trying to understand what the market
adoption is. There's a lot of talk about
doing things on public blockchain. And
there's a lot of talk about the
potential. There's a lot of talk about
the appetite. And I feel actually the
only way that we can really pressure
test that and prove it and adjust the
thesis to kind of where the market needs
to go is to do something.
>> But Scott, now that you're using both
blockchain and legacy rails for
transactions, have you chosen a winner,
a preferred way forward? quite often in
in the in the blockchain space, it gets
really emotional really quickly about
what technology you use. It's either
this or it's that. You can do it this
way or you can do it that way. And
really, a markets an an efficient market
does and so there'll be a whole bunch of
products that stay as they work today in
a you very deep and liquid capital
markets footprint in the United States.
And there'll be some stuff that we add
to that market, whether it be similar
products or new products that work on
blockchain. And at some point, the
market will decide whether blockchain is
a better answer or not, you know, and
whether it becomes an all blockchain or
a no blockchain or a regular technology
and blockchain outcome. And to be
honest, like that's not our decision as
JP Morgan. I think that's the market's
decision. I mean, that's that's the
journey we're on. And I think it's
reasonable to say that
there's a good thesis to suggest that
blockchain is a better technology for a
bunch of different instruments in the
market. There's no evidence yet. So,
let's build that body of evidence and
make sure that our thesis is correct and
and if it if it's not quite correct in
one way, can it go another way and
perhaps answer the question separately.
So, that that's really the point of this
exercise. If we were to take a 10,000
foot view, and I'm going to ask you to
take that pilot's view, if you will,
Scott, um, the amount of money being
moved in traditional market channels
really dwarves what's moving on chain.
If that ratio changes, could those
massive amounts of capital be tokenized
and handled on blockchain?
>> I I think we need to figure out like for
what purpose those changes would happen.
The United States already has the most
deep and liquid capital markets on the
planet. To make those more efficient,
you need to kind of say, well, first of
all, where are the inefficiencies that
we think could be addressed? And second
of all, how do those inefficiencies
positively impact the market in a way
that's worth making the investment to
get there? There has been a lot of
supply and experimentation with
tokenized securities over a range of
years. there hasn't been a lot of
success in bringing sort of broader
market products, you know, into
production because there hasn't been a
broad set of usable cash sources. And
when I as as much as stable coins are
growing and the opportunity exists for
stable coins to continue to grow, there
still aren't an enormous set of scalable
cash sources. And so tomorrow, maybe
there's cash, maybe there's stable
coins, maybe there's tokenized deposits,
maybe there's central bank digital
currencies in some jurisdictions, maybe
there's other means of settling that
transaction. And so I think that the
question really is like how can you
match those up? If you've got a
sophisticated methodology of choosing
the security on a particular platform
and now you've got multiple choices of
the settlement mechanism for that, like
how does that then get built and how
does that work? And again, that's very
much a client-driven conversation. You
know, it's what do the clients want to
do, where they want to operate,
>> do we think we can help them with that?
And if we can help them with that, like
what's our risk footprint we're prepared
to take
>> in that sort of in that area. And that's
the same as every other product. The
fact it's on blockchain or not almost
doesn't matter. Like we ask ourselves
the same questions every time. How do we
support clients? How do we think about
our risk footprint? Are we prepared to
operate in that space? what are the
resources we're going to put against
that? I think there is a fair bit to
learn there and I think the potential
exists but you know we we still need to
prove the thesis in the market and then
you know see where the reality takes us
and I think that horizon's pretty open.
>> Scott, the commercial paper transaction
we talked about off at the top that was
a really great proof of concept in that
specific domain. What other
opportunities do you see tokenization
bringing to other asset classes besides
money markets?
>> If you put something on a distributed
ledger with a single record that
entitled users can see, it's impossible
to disagree
and it's impossible to disagree that
yours mine becomes ours. And if there's
our record of that instrument, then the
way that you think about and we often
talk about this from a sort of a fixed
income standpoint that maybe you think
about coupon is there's one record.
Well, if there's only one record today,
we pay coupon on a six monthly or annual
basis because there's a lot of overhead
around managing that process and
checking that process at scale. Well, if
there's only one record, why wouldn't
you calculate coupon to the millisecond?
And then when you trade that instrument,
that clean and dirty price associated
with a trade at that particular moment
is very very clear. Even if you settle
it later, like that's the rule set. And
there's no debate around what that looks
like. You can change the frequency of
the coupon payment. You could pay daily,
weekly, monthly. You could provide
optionality around um whether you wanted
to keep all of the coupon at the same
frequency or you wanted a different
frequency. And that could be at the
behest of the investor if they want a
different credit risk profile. You could
be the behest of the issuer if they want
a different liquidity profile. You could
embed a smart contract in to manage the
interest rate swap. So the issuer steps
out of the equation. And now you've got
like the bank managing the cash flows
directly to the investor or whoever is
managing that that swap. And then you
don't need a very sophisticated finance
department who can manage the swap on
your behalf because you don't have all
the accounting rules and processing etc
around those cash flows. Like if that's
the case then companies that aren't as
mature, aren't as big etc might be able
to access debt capital markets in a way
they can't access today. And so when you
really think about like what
tokenization can do, it's not just about
faster mobilization and bringing more
collateral to the table. It's also about
like changing the potential for the
instruments themselves
in a way that enables more utility and
enables capital markets to do what
capital markets should do which is get
themselves wider and deeper to service
the wider economy and economic growth.
Like that's the point.
>> We had a conversation with Rick Edelman.
He said that tokenization will
revolutionize the entire industry. He
said that within 10 years everything
will be tokenized and traded onchain. Do
you agree?
>> Possible but improbable. And that
doesn't mean it shouldn't. It's not a
view on whether it's the right choice or
not. But I don't think this change is as
easy as everyone thinks. There's a big
difference between technological
readiness, legal readiness, regulatory
understanding, then taking risk, then
upgrading internal systems. So that just
takes a while. And and I don't care if
it takes 3 years, 5 years, 10 years, 15
years. I don't mind if the whole market
changes or some of the market changes.
But what we do believe in is there is
absolute value in deploying this
technology into specific areas of the
market. We do believe that there will be
scalable market change over time. But to
be deterministic around
um how long that takes or how long that
should take, I I don't think that's our
job. I think that's the market to figure
that out and and we'll hopefully help
figure that out with the market.
[music]
>> Both our guests today agree that
tokenized assets are emerging as a
powerful tool for investors and
investment companies. But where they
differ is in the timeline. Rick talks
about tokenization taking over within 5
to 10 [music] years while Scott is
monitoring client demand and letting
that dictate the pace of adoption. So, I
want to wrap this [music] episode by
going back to Rick Edelman to get his
opinion of what it will take to [music]
accelerate the rate of institutional
adoption and make his bullish prediction
come true.
>> A big impediment to adoption has been
the lack of clarity by Congress. We
don't know what the rules are. We don't
know how to engage. We don't have rules
for custody. We don't know what taxation
is going to be yet. So, we're waiting
for Congress to create the laws. Once we
have the rules of the road and the
brokerage industry, the banking
industry, the insurance industry all
know how they're allowed to engage,
you'll begin to see the massive levels
of adoption.
I'm Angie [music] Laauo and this is
Evolving Money, a co-production between
Coinbase and Bloomberg Media Studios.
[music] Thanks for listening. Be sure to
follow the show on your app of choice so
you'll always be in the loop when we
post a new episode.